.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contribute to the template
Contributions and issues are most welcome! All issues and pull requests are handled through [GitHub](https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/python-copier-template/issues). Also, please check for any existing issues before filing a new one. If you have a great idea but it involves big changes, please file a ticket before making a pull request! We want to make sure you don't spend your time coding something that might not fit the scope of the project.

## Issue or Discussion?

Github also offers [discussions](https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/python-copier-template/discussions) as a place to ask questions and share ideas. If your issue is open ended and it is not obvious when it can be "closed", please raise it as a discussion instead.

## Getting changes into the template

This template is a place to pull together agreed best practices from various sources. As such, it is difficult to demonstrate a change without seeing it in action in another repo. Please link to a repo that has the desired behaviour when proposing changes to the template.

## Checking your changes before making a PR

The template has some tests that generating from scratch and updating the [example](https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/python-copier-template-example) produce the same result, but it is difficult to that things like CI and docs are still generated correctly. You can ease this process by:

- Making your changes on a branch of <https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/python-copier-template>
- Running `copier update --vcs-ref=<branch_name>` in the repo where you would like to demonstrate the behaviour
- Linking to that demonstration repo in the PR

## Developer Information

It is recommended that developers use a [vscode devcontainer](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers). This repository contains configuration to set up a containerized development environment that suits its own needs.

For more information on common tasks like setting up a developer environment, running the tests, and setting a pre-commit hook, see the [How-to guides](https://diamondlightsource.github.io/python-copier-template/main/how-to.html)

## Making a Tagged GitHub Release

When making changes to the `catalog-info.yaml` file, a release **must** be made. The Backstage Developer Portal produces its UI for the template using this file from the `main` branch whereas copier takes the template from the latest tag. Therefore, any differences between the copier variables could cause a breaking change so a release should be made as soon as possible.

Commit message:

reworded section on checking changes

.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contribute to the template
Contributions and issues are most welcome! All issues and pull requests are handled through [GitHub](https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/python-copier-template/issues). Also, please check for any existing issues before filing a new one. If you have a great idea but it involves big changes, please file a ticket before making a pull request! We want to make sure you don't spend your time coding something that might not fit the scope of the project.

## Issue or Discussion?

Github also offers [discussions](https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/python-copier-template/discussions) as a place to ask questions and share ideas. If your issue is open ended and it is not obvious when it can be "closed", please raise it as a discussion instead.

## Getting changes into the template

This template is a place to pull together agreed best practices from various sources. As such, it is difficult to demonstrate a change without seeing it in action in another repo. Please link to a repo that has the desired behaviour when proposing changes to the template.

## Checking your changes before making a PR

The template has tests for:

- Generating a new project from scratch
- Updating the [example project](https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/python-copier-template-example)
- Checking that both of the above produce the same results

However, this does not test whether processes like CI and docs work correctly. To ensure that this can be checked, you can:

- Making your changes on a branch of <https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/python-copier-template>
- Running `copier update --vcs-ref=<branch_name>` in the repo where you would like to demonstrate the behaviour
- Linking to that demonstration repo in the PR

## Developer Information

It is recommended that developers use a [vscode devcontainer](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers). This repository contains configuration to set up a containerized development environment that suits its own needs.

For more information on common tasks like setting up a developer environment, running the tests, and setting a pre-commit hook, see the [How-to guides](https://diamondlightsource.github.io/python-copier-template/main/how-to.html)

## Making a Tagged GitHub Release

When making changes to the `catalog-info.yaml` file, a release **must** be made. The Backstage Developer Portal produces its UI for the template using this file from the `main` branch whereas copier takes the template from the latest tag. Therefore, any differences between the copier variables could cause a breaking change so a release should be made as soon as possible.
